Instructor: Let's take a look
at the EarSketch user interface
and all the components
of the EarSketch workspace.
I want to start
in the top right corner
where you can log in
with your username and password.
If you don't have one yet,
make sure
to register a new account.
Type in all of the information
so that you can log in.
I have an account already
so I'll go ahead and log in
with my information.
Another important thing
to look at on the top here
is this link called "Q&A"
which takes you
to a separate EarSketch
question and answer site
where you can ask and answer
questions about using EarSketch—
and not just with other people
in your class,
but with the whole
EarSketch community of users
from all around the world.
Back to the main interface here.
I want to look
at the left side here
where there's a bunch
of different icons
that open and close
different sections
of the user interface.
Let's start with the one
on the top—
the Sound Browser.
This is where you can look
through 4,000 or so loops
that are included with EarSketch
for you to use
inside of your music.
You can also add
your own sounds here
by recording them
inside of EarSketch
or by uploading files
that you may already have.
To find the sounds
that you're looking for,
you can search for them.
But what I usually like to do
is to start off with a genre
that I'm interested in
and then, from there,
look for the different
instruments that I want
to add to my mix.
Once you've found the things
that you're looking for
in a list here,
you can click on them
to preview them.
[electric funk piano music]
You can view
some more information
by clicking the tags icon
and you can click the paste icon
to paste the name of the sound
into the code
that you're writing.
Let's move on
to the Scripts Browser.
When you're logged
into EarSketch
and you're writing code
it automatically gets saved
to the cloud as you're writing.
And this is where
you can view
all the different scripts
that you've created,
open them back up,
and do different things
with them.
So I'll click on one
that I've created recently here—
you can see
it immediately opens it
as a new tab in the Code Editor
here in the center of EarSketch.
You can, of course, search
and sort your scripts as well,
but I really want to point out
this menu here
next to each script
where you can do
some more advanced things.
You can download your script
as an audio file,
either a WAV or an MP3,
you can share your script
to SoundCloud—
big social media site
for sharing music.
And you can also share it
as a URL that you can
cut and paste
onto any website you want.
You can even view
a history of your code—
you can look at all
the different changes
you've made to it over time
and you can go back
to an earlier version
if you don't like a new change
that you made.
So that's the Scripts Browser.
We move down
to the next icon here—
this is showing shared scripts,
scripts that have been
shared with me.
It's empty right now
but if you're looking
at a script that someone
has shared with you,
it'll show information
about that script
and some more options.
The final thing that we see
on the left side here,
it's this next icon—
the API Browser.
This shows
all the special functions
that we've added to Python
and JavaScript programming
languages to let you make music.
And so you can go through
and you can see the names
of all the functions,
all the parameters they take.
If you click on the eye icon
it gives you
a lot more information
and some examples
of how to use them.
And again there's a paste button
if you want
to paste that function
into the code
that you're writing.
So that's the left side bar.
I'm going to close that up
and let's look
at the middle now.
I have a script open here.
So this is my code editor
where I can actually write
and edit my code
and then I press the run button
to actually run it
to make the music.
And when it's finished running
I'll see it in the top
here in the DAW,
or the Digital Audio
Workstation, view.
We'll talk more later
about exactly how this works
but you can see the music
track by track here
and then I can play it as well.
[synth bass groove music]
And I can show and hide that
just like
all the other elements here.
Code Editor also has
some other options here—
I can change
the background color
if it's easier for you to read
with a white background.
I can also change the font size
to make it bigger.
And then down here
is the console—
that's this this icon.
And the console shows me
information about the program
as its running.
It can show error messages
and warnings.
It can also show information.
Not just information
that EarSketch provides,
but also information
that you may actually choose
to put into the console
by putting print functions
inside of your code—
something that we'll cover
in a later chapter.
The final thing
that I want to show
is the Curriculum,
which is all the way over here
on the right.
This little book icon hides it,
shows it.
That's probably
what you're reading right now
to learn about EarSketch
and this is obviously
where you can continue reading
to learn more about writing code
and making music with EarSketch.
I want to point out
two things really quickly
about this.
One is that there's
a lot of example code
that comes
throughout the Curriculum.
And with each of these
example code samples
you can press this paste icon
to open up that code
as a new tab in your Code Editor
so that you can then run it,
you can hear
what it sounds like,
and you can even edit it
and do more things
with it if you want.
The other thing I wanted to show
is that there's a lot of videos
like the one you're watching
right now inside
of the Curriculum.
But they show up pretty small
most of the time,
so I suggest when you're
watching the videos
that you hit
the little zoom icon,
at the bottom,
usually the bottom right
of the video,
which expands it
to a full screen view.
One final thing that I want
to point out is
that in EarSketch you can write
in one of two
programming languages—
either Python or JavaScript.
And you make the decision
about what language
you want to write in
whenever you create
a new script in EarSketch.
You can create a new script
by pressing the plus sign.
And you can see here
you then have the option
of doing Python or JavaScript
and then you can also give
the name to your script.
So that concludes
our quick tour
of the EarSketch user interface.